[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It's as if you and I
are learning how to swim.
And we keep coming back
to land, to touch down,
to be with the familiar
limits of our earth
on which we're
familiar with walking.
And we're still developing
our dolphinesque qualities,
our ability to be at home in the
water of the great perfection,
pure awareness.
It's interesting
that when you have
built such a habitual
structure of self definition
on this plane of
reality, on Earth,
to awaken to the realization
that it's beautiful
being just what it is,
and that there are places
you can see it from
that turn it from being
a kind of a burdensome weight
to being a delightful play.
That at first the journey starts
where you are, on the normal
waking consciousness
plane, and you
come into a kind of
spacious awareness
that's quiet and clear,
and you see it all.
There's no doing.
There's no coming.
There's no going.
There's just ah.
And then something causes
you to grab or fixate,
and you're suddenly
in familiar territory,
back in the model of
your separateness.
And you say, I got
high, and I came down.
And that's a model
you imposed from
your habitual self-definition
of separateness.
So what does it take to bring
about the full transformation
so that you don't
come back to that.
You don't reject it.
You dance in your separateness
without being entrapped by it.
How can you transform
where you stand
or don't stand so that
there is no home to come to.
It's all just to play a form.
All of the spiritual
practices move you
in the direction of
becoming familiar
and at home in what
is often called
the domain of the spirit.
You can feel that you have,
because of where you're
starting from, your karmic
predicament, a proclivity,
an attraction towards one
form more than another.
For some of you, the kind
of metaphysical reflection,
thinking about the nature
of self or things like that,
right on, just
excites you immensely.
It keeps taking you to the edge.
Somebody else singing
om namah shivaya
brings you in through
the softness of the heart
into a quality of
spacious moment presence.
For another person, the
grieving and acknowledging
and being with stuff
of life has allowed
you to relax, release, open.
Or still others,
just the meditative
opening into spacious
awareness simply
given through the
relaxed state of being
is what touched you most deeply.
What we come away from is
hearing our own unique journey,
respecting the uniqueness of
others and their journeys,
and being careful not to get
too enamored of even your path,
but rather become free.
How many moments in the journey
between what you think is here
and what you think
is there, a moment
of appreciating a tree,
a moment, a predicament,
a poignancy, the humor,
the flow, the emptiness,
the sweetness, the fullness.
How many moments?
How much will one get identified
with thought of planning?
How will my life change?
The best practice to
be free is to be free.
That's the practice.
If, for some strange chance,
you should happen to get lost
into your drama sometime
in the future again, don't.
That image is that
forgetting is great
because it's such
fun to remember.
[MUSIC PLAYING]